hello and welcome to the special segment
call is MC Pro S Talk of the day I'm
your host Nikki mandani and in the
segment we bring to you fundamentally
strong investment stock areas let's talk
about one of the largest private
non-life Insurance icci Lombard General
Insurance company which is voice for
growth of course that's the stock of the
day but let's catch in on more about the
details right the largest private
General insurer supported by IA Bank
holds in a significant position in the
market ranking second overall amongst
General Insurance
including public sector players it
commands in a market share of
approximately 9% based on Gross direct
premium income as of December 2023 now
what does MC Pro like about the company
a couple of Reason let's address the
first one for you which is strong
premium growth now icci Lombard
demonstrated an an impressive growth
over it its cross direct premium income
gdpi increasing in by 177% surpassing
the industry's growth of 14% in the 9mon
f24 particularly notable was the Revival
in motor insurance growth during Q3 f524
following a period of sluggish
performance over several quarters
additionally the property and the
casualty lines of business experience
solid growth too the health insurance
segment remained the Company's fastest
growing segment management expressed in
confidence and achieving in High teen
growth in premium for
fi25 second factor is the lower combined
ratio a general insurance profitability
improves with a lower combined ratio
despite facing in three major
catastrophes including Cyclones floods
that is in 9mon fi 24 icci Lombard
managed to improve its combined ratio to
103.7 compared to 10 14.6% for the 9mon
ended in the previous Financial year
2023 the decline in the loss to claim
ratio in the motor segment contributed
to the Improvement however with the
combined ratio remaining above that 100%
IC Lombard reported in an underwriting
loss nonetheless the insurer achieved
profitability as the underwriting loss
underwriting loss was offset by
investment income looking ahead
management aims to further enhance the
combined ratio to 102% by fi 2025 let's
talk about the third component which is
favorable shift in product mix towards
health insurance segment in 9month ended
fi 2024 health insurance emerged as the
primary driver of ICICI Lombard's
overall growth the company has been
expanding its distribution Network by
incorporating in retail health agency
managers anticipating an accelerated
growth in retail health insurance as the
Salesforce becomes more productive
health insurance is deemed a profitable
segment due to its lower claims to loss
ratios compared to that that of motor
insurance the favorable shift in the
product mix towards health insurance
boths well for the future profitability
of the company with icsi Lombard holding
in a mere 3% market share in the retail
Health business category there is an
ample room for growth in contrast
competitors like Star Health command
market shares exceeding 30% while HDFC
Ergo holds around 9% in the health
segment let's talk about the valuation
premium at this time but Justified at
the same time now the stock has surged
by 16% in the past 1 month reflecting in
investor optimism however it's worth
noting that the insurer is currently
trading at a valuation of over 7.2 times
Book value as of December 2023
indicating a rich valuation this premium
valuation according to MC Pro analysis
is attributed to its Superior
franchising and positive outlook on
future profitability which justifies the
premium let's talk about the key risk
well slower premium growth big copy
events and higher claims these are the
three things which should throw off the
financials of the company and weigh on
its risk profile with this it's the R
thank you so much for tuning
[Music]
in
I